um the old free clothes like all my
jewelry was given to me like back then
like all right so many times I was just
on 0 when I was traveling and I was just
praying to [ __ ] god the sponsorship
would come in I am NOT gonna trivialize
the importance of SN O'Neill I think
she's really quite important in the
history of veganism history of vegan
activism I would go so far as to say
that if I were gonna write a book about
vegan activism in my lifetime vegan
activism for my generation
you could start chapter one with Sno
Neil I mean that and you could talk
about the turning point where look in
the past we had these examples like peda
people's the Ethical Treatment of
Animals in the past we had people like
Gary Francis aione and then you know
something special happened around the
time sno Niall came on YouTube where
there was this concept of lifestyle
activism there was this model of the
permanent vacation of people flying
around the world and going to the beach
in bikinis and getting millions of views
people like Essen O'Neil and freely
started to change the game and they
changed the game for the worse and then
they burnt out and for personally and
publicly broken and humiliated and wept
on camera and then the game began to
change again into what it is we have now
Essen O'Neil is not a trivial person at
least not on the Picayune scale by which
we measure out the importance of things
and vegan activist like you think I was
rich like I was like oh like oh my jury
was given to me like back then like
alright so many times I was just on 0
when I was traveling and I was just
praying to [ __ ] god the sponsorship
would come in and I'd have $30 like
through the next few days so this is an
important misperception or misconception
there were young women all over the
world who dropped out of university
there were young women who dropped out
of high school in order to imitate
Essen O'Neil and of course I talked to
people who dropped out of university or
dropped out of high school to imitate
freely another early adopter of the
permanent vacation lifestyle and of
course all of them assumed that if they
followed in these footsteps they'd be
living in relative wealth and relative
luxury and what she's saying to you here
is no no she was living in a kind of
poverty and desperation so the money
question is obviously you accepted
donations which we're supposed to go to
your future content creation and then
obviously you closed down the website
and didn't go through with all of that
so some people say that you basically
stole money from people you're a scammer
so can you explain what happened with
the money that people donated why isn't
closed at plant-based news following up
on this story do you guys remember this
closed made a completely fictitious
story accusing me of doing what SN
O'Neill actually did so this is an
example of a real fundraising
controversy in the vegan movement that
we should all pay attention to when I
learned from and there was a phony
contrived fake fundraising controversy
there were false allegations made
against me and for some reason the Free
Press such as it exists in the vegan
movement they were on the wrong side of
the controversy that involved me and it
seemed like there was very little
interest in holding SN O'Neill
accountable when she walked away with
$10,000 crying about body image crying
about that leg it's shitty that I like
was selling all these like hot clothes
of my hot body and maybe that cycle
isn't good for young people that that's
kind of what I let's be clear being a
leader in the vegan movement is a
position of moral authority
yes Esther O'Neill was someone who wore
a bikini and her fame partly derived
from that but the position she adopted
was one that required her to be morally
impeccable especially when asking
for donations for a charitable purpose
right there's an onus on her to
demonstrate that she's not just using
the donations to pay her rent
that the donations are being used for
some positive purpose such as she
promised to reviewers I so the irony
that everyone's like she's stealing all
this money like I was like holy [ __ ]
like I need I needed money for right
like I needed I could not there's no way
to say other than I didn't feel safe
with where I lived where I was I didn't
I had just came back from LA my family
dynamics were insane it was a very
alienating intense time to me my
personal life so be that as it may the
donors were supporting a charitable
purpose and that's not what the money
was spent on as she said just their
passing she spent the money on her own
rent yeah that's definitely how I felt
as well so it was about 10 grand I got
given which I thought was amazing and in
saying I made that was a lot of money
and that was amazing um but as soon as I
felt like I couldn't create content and
I just lost all trust and who I was and
what I was doing and yeah maybe I'm just
being emotional and scamming people
maybe that's who I really am you know I
think it's worthwhile to just pause and
reflect on what she just said to her
it's a joke I think for all of us
reflecting in our own lives reflecting
how we use social media whether as
content creators or as viewers I think
it's not a joke I think it's not a
laughing matter let me say still right
now I'm in a position to ask for the
nation's but their various projects have
proposed in the past but if I were to
ask for donations
I would then hold myself to a very high
standard in pursuing those objectives
and reporting to the public on where the
money had gone something as simple as
publishing a book once you take on that
responsibility that you're not gambling
with your own money through gambling
with other people's money you have to
hold yourself to a standard that is
above reproach I just panicked I donated
about half of it just random charities
I'm sure you can hook them up it was out
of panic what was that so she paid her
rent and she donated about half of it to
just random charities sorry sir sorry
when people gave you $10,000
they weren't choosing to donate to
random charities right if if right now
if I ask my audience to donate some
money so I can publish your book I have
to take that money and give it to the
printing press you know spend it on a
list of things maybe I have to pay an
illustrator to illustrate the cover
give me a series of things really do
publishing the book right it doesn't
solve the problem morally or ethically
if I say oh well you know I didn't
publish the book but about half of the
money went to random charities your
audience can donate to random charities
themselves this is holding yourself
accountable by the wrong standard the
right thing I wish I would have just
figured out how to refund but I'm sorry
I was just so [ __ ] dumb it was just
yeah I just I just wanted it to be about
that's I think I just panicked and I was
just like okay donate and then because I
currently do a certain amount a day I
end up seeing a therapist and I was
talking to her about it and she was like
look like you know like that's just like
you're just giving you money with
charities like maybe you could just
throw away the three weeks like get you
clear your head so then I volunteered in
Cambodia so many sleepless nights where
I've just been
I'm never gonna be out of painted people
back running away from your problems but
doing volunteer work in Cambodia
paycheck to paycheck that's why I'm
really passionate about ubi and special
services because they think it could be
easy up everyone were you ever tempted
to come back to social media and what
did you miss most after you left
besides from the insane pleasure of
earning money like that yeah number one
money of all things of course I'm nerdy
it's working minimum wage and then
getting paid to promote like a cute
vegan product it's different
why there was something so special about
what I had online and I just wanted
again it sucked because oh sorry I know
it's uncomfortable to talk about but I
feel like the people in my life then
they had a certain point of view and my
point of view was different and I felt
so alone and alienated and like I was
crazy and a few people did um say that
to me and I think that taught me a lot
and that was my silencing like after I
thought someone was like you're not okay
you need serious help
um and I wasn't okay so I think that was
ultimately clear um that hurt I don't
know that really hurt me and that just
made me feel so shameful that I'd
embarrassed my family you guys yeah that
just make it full of myself that I just
shared that stuff should have been saved
for therapy you know and it's been for
years and I can I can I'm thankful I had
happened I can't I can't regret things
but everything with the money and just
it was just it was a mess I was just
trying to have a little blog and not
just once of ships and what a blow up to
was just it was just all too much for me
and yeah I've been doing this thing on
YouTube for more than five years talking
about history politics sometimes about
veganism I don't recommend other people
do it some people are cut out for this
and some are not and people sometimes
talk to me and say they're uncomfortable
with their own body
they have issues related to anorexia and
weight loss they were uncomfortable with
their own face they're uncomfortable
with the sound of their own voice when
they record videos and here at back they
can't stand it this ain't for you and
you know Essen O'Neill and her rise to
fame had a lot to do with her being very
lean and wearing a bikini there wasn't a
whole lot in the bikini but really
showing off her midriff showing off how
thin she was all the time and during
when she broke down when it all fell
apart for her she did have reflections
about this obsession with weight loss
not quite anorexia but having a roll
life of over on this this was one of the
sources of stress and sorrow and of
you know struggling to be as beautiful
as you can be or maybe more beautiful
than you can be for the sake of the lens
look guys what I'm doing right now is
not motivated by money and it's not
motivated by the number of viewers right
I'm coming on camera and talking about
things that I really think are
meaningful as an end in itself if I've
got something to say about politics of
Vietnam politics of Afghanistan or the
politics of some internet personality if
I think that what I'm saying is
meaningful and I want to share it on the
record then that isn't in itself so I
don't suffer from these other things but
essen O'Neill there's another real
cautionary fable here and she thought
the money would never end
she thought her looks would never fade
and now here we are just a few years
later partly looking back at the train
wreck of a career of SN O'Neill and
partly looking back at the train wreck
of the vegan movement and partly looking
back and looking forward at social media
and what it means for people like me and
what it means for people like her who
decide to sacrifice our privacy putting
things in the internet that can very
simply prevent you from getting even the
humblest of jobs what I do on YouTube
could prevent me from getting a job at
Starbucks and ice cream a handful of
times it was delicious each time versus
I was drunk I'm saying that just to say
that I used to be a real perfectionist
online I think that's something I really
could take a lot now is kind of like I
realize I always had something to always
just had this like image to like uphold
to Oh like there was just it was always
like this person in my head telling me
like what was right and wrong all the
time and who laid up I reckon that's
just boring
I can probably people ought fun to hang
around I studied on English Lit and
political science just for a year
which I loved I won so much fell in love
with Cal mogs alienation
I'm terrified of being set but I yeah I
think I'm a lot more like I'm a lot more
sure of like who I like who I trust and
I think that makes your personality more
than just like other thing editor that
sounds really bad way explaining your
looks don't last asana O'Neill her
career was based on her appearance her
so-called beauty and her looks didn't
last in general with human beings of any
gender and any age we can say your looks
don't last if you're an exception to the
rule still looking ahead to the future
that's not something you should count on
what you should count on is building
your career building your reputation
whether on social media or otherwise on
something meaningful on something
durable being a person of character
being a person of substance being a
person of real moral integrity Essen
O'Neil the internet did hand you an
opportunity to earn a lot of money by
wearing a bikini handed you an
opportunity to travel all around the
world on permanent vacation and live the
very peculiar life that you did but it
also had you an opportunity to be a
leader in the vegan movement for a
little while you were and you could have
taken that opportunity to develop
yourself intellectually you could have
taken that opportunity to really hold
yourself to a very high standard morally
as a person of integrity as a person who
was a leader of sorts in a political
movement of sorts and you didn't do that
you got instead on the road to
self-indulgence and self eduation
and you're still living in that
self-centered way when your looks and
your fame are gone and can never be
recovered the life of the mind doesn't
last forever
but I'll tell you something I look
forward to being 70 years old because I
look forward to what I'm gonna be able
to do with my mind as an author and an
intellectual when I'm in my 70s
[Music]